README.md, before:

#  Reference Browser

[![Task Status](https://github.taskcluster.net/v1/repository/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/master/badge.svg)](https://github.taskcluster.net/v1/repository/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/master/latest)

A web browser reference implementation using [Mozilla Android Components](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/android-components).

*The Reference Browser is not a product intended to ship to end users. Instead it is a Technology Preview for many new mobile components that multiple teams at Mozilla are currently working on*

It includes the Mozilla Web Platform via GeckoView, a new modern Firefox Accounts and Cloud Sync implementation and the new "Glean" telemetry library. All these components will be foundational for Mozilla's existing and upcoming Android products.

The Reference Browser can also be a starting point for your own new browser-like applications. It depends heavily on the [Android Components](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/android-components) project where most of the actual implementation lives. That project also includes many smaller sample applications.

# Getting Involved

We encourage you to participate in this open source project. We love pull requests, bug reports, ideas, (security) code reviews or any kind of positive contribution.

Before you attempt to make a contribution please read the [Community Participation Guidelines](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/governance/policies/participation/).

* [View current Issues](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/issues) or [View current Pull Requests](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/pulls).

* IRC: [#android-components (irc.mozilla.org)](https://wiki.mozilla.org/IRC) | [view logs](https://mozilla.logbot.info/android-components/)

* Subscribe to our mailing list [android-components@](https://lists.mozilla.org/listinfo/android-components) to keep up to date ([Archives](https://lists.mozilla.org/pipermail/android-components/)).


# Test Channel on Google Play Store

To get the Reference Browser on your device, follow these two steps:

1) Visit https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/mozilla-reference-browser and join the Google Group
2) Visit https://play.google.com/apps/testing/org.mozilla.reference.browser on your device to join the test program and to install the app

Make sure you use the same Google Account for both steps.

# Download Nightly Builds Directly

Signed Nightly builds can be downloaded from:

* [⬇️ ARM64/Aarch64 devices (64 bit; Android 5+)](https://firefox-ci-tc.services.mozilla.com/api/index/v1/task/mobile.v2.reference-browser.nightly.latest.arm64-v8a/artifacts/public/target.arm64-v8a.apk)
* [⬇️ ARM devices (32 bit; Android 5+)](https://firefox-ci-tc.services.mozilla.com/api/index/v1/task/mobile.v2.reference-browser.nightly.latest.armeabi-v7a/artifacts/public/target.armeabi-v7a.apk)
* [⬇️ x86_64  devices (64 bit; Android 5+)](https://firefox-ci-tc.services.mozilla.com/api/index/v1/task/mobile.v2.reference-browser.nightly.latest.x86_64/artifacts/public/target.x86_64.apk)
* [⬇️ x86  devices (32 bit; Android 5+)](https://firefox-ci-tc.services.mozilla.com/api/index/v1/task/mobile.v2.reference-browser.nightly.latest.x86/artifacts/public/target.x86.apk)

> Please note that these builds do not auto-update, you will have to keep up to date manually.

The latest Nightly build task can be found [here](https://firefox-ci-tc.services.mozilla.com/tasks/index/project.mobile.reference-browser.v3.nightly/latest).

# Getting Involved

We encourage you to participate in this open source project. We love pull requests, bug reports, ideas, (security) code reviews or any kind of positive contribution.

Before you attempt to make a contribution please read the [Community Participation Guidelines](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/governance/policies/participation/).

* [View current Issues](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/issues) or [View current Pull Requests](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/pulls).

* [List of good first issues](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) (**New contributors start here!**) and [List of "help wanted" issues](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22).

* IRC: [#android-components (irc.mozilla.org)](https://wiki.mozilla.org/IRC) | [view logs](https://mozilla.logbot.info/android-components/)

* Subscribe to our mailing list [android-components@](https://lists.mozilla.org/listinfo/android-components) to keep up to date ([Archives](https://lists.mozilla.org/pipermail/android-components/)).

# Local Development

You might be interested in building this project against local versions of some of the dependencies. Depending on which dependencies you're building against, there are couple of paths.

## Auto-publication workflow

This is the most streamlined workflow which fully automates dependency publication. It currently supports [android-components](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/android-components/) and [application-services](https://github.com/mozilla/application-services) dependencies.

In a `local.properties` file in root of the `reference-browser` checkout, specify relative paths to a repository you need (or both):
```
# Local workflow
autoPublish.android-components.dir=../android-components
autoPublish.application-services.dir=../application-services
```

That's it! Next build of `reference-browser` will be against your local versions of these repositories. Simply make changes in `android-components` or `application-services`, press Play in `reference-browser` and those changes will be picked-up.

See a [demo of this workflow](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qZKlBzVvQGc) in action. Video mentions `Fenix`, but it works in exactly the same with with `reference-browser`.

## Dependency substitutions for [GeckoView](https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central)

GeckoView currently can be configured via a dependency substitution.

In a `local.properties` file in root of the `reference-browser` checkout, specify GeckoView's path via `dependencySubstitutions.geckoviewTopsrcdir=/path/to/mozilla-central` (and, optionally, `dependencySubstitutions.geckoviewTopobjdir=/path/to/topobjdir`). See [Bug 1533465](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1533465).

This assumes that you have built, packaged, and published your local GeckoView -- but don't worry, the dependency substitution script has the latest instructions for doing that.

Do not forget to run a Gradle sync in Android Studio after changing `local.properties`. If you specified any substitutions (e.g. GeckoView), they will be reflected in the modules list, and you'll be able to modify them from a single Android Studio window. For auto-publication workflow, use seperate Android Studio windows.

# Ouinet Integration
Prior to building the CENO Reference Browser, you just need to create a `local.properties` file in the root of this project and set the values as follows before building the app:
```groovy
ABI=arm64_v8a
CACHE_PUB_KEY="YOUR OUINET CACHE PUB KEY"
INJECTOR_CREDENTIALS="ouinet:YOURINJECTORPASSWORD"
INJECTOR_TLS_CERT="-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\\n\
ABCDEFG...\
\\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----"
```

Those values should be loaded by Gradle during the build process in **app/build.gradle**:


# License

    This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
    License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
    file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/

Commit message:

Add support for HTTPS browsing via gecko-dev fork that allows root CA cert to be set during GeckoViewStartup

README.md, after:

#  Reference Browser

[![Task Status](https://github.taskcluster.net/v1/repository/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/master/badge.svg)](https://github.taskcluster.net/v1/repository/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/master/latest)

A web browser reference implementation using [Mozilla Android Components](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/android-components).

*The Reference Browser is not a product intended to ship to end users. Instead it is a Technology Preview for many new mobile components that multiple teams at Mozilla are currently working on*

It includes the Mozilla Web Platform via GeckoView, a new modern Firefox Accounts and Cloud Sync implementation and the new "Glean" telemetry library. All these components will be foundational for Mozilla's existing and upcoming Android products.

The Reference Browser can also be a starting point for your own new browser-like applications. It depends heavily on the [Android Components](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/android-components) project where most of the actual implementation lives. That project also includes many smaller sample applications.

# Getting Involved

We encourage you to participate in this open source project. We love pull requests, bug reports, ideas, (security) code reviews or any kind of positive contribution.

Before you attempt to make a contribution please read the [Community Participation Guidelines](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/governance/policies/participation/).

* [View current Issues](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/issues) or [View current Pull Requests](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/pulls).

* IRC: [#android-components (irc.mozilla.org)](https://wiki.mozilla.org/IRC) | [view logs](https://mozilla.logbot.info/android-components/)

* Subscribe to our mailing list [android-components@](https://lists.mozilla.org/listinfo/android-components) to keep up to date ([Archives](https://lists.mozilla.org/pipermail/android-components/)).


# Test Channel on Google Play Store

To get the Reference Browser on your device, follow these two steps:

1) Visit https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/mozilla-reference-browser and join the Google Group
2) Visit https://play.google.com/apps/testing/org.mozilla.reference.browser on your device to join the test program and to install the app

Make sure you use the same Google Account for both steps.

# Download Nightly Builds Directly

Signed Nightly builds can be downloaded from:

* [⬇️ ARM64/Aarch64 devices (64 bit; Android 5+)](https://firefox-ci-tc.services.mozilla.com/api/index/v1/task/mobile.v2.reference-browser.nightly.latest.arm64-v8a/artifacts/public/target.arm64-v8a.apk)
* [⬇️ ARM devices (32 bit; Android 5+)](https://firefox-ci-tc.services.mozilla.com/api/index/v1/task/mobile.v2.reference-browser.nightly.latest.armeabi-v7a/artifacts/public/target.armeabi-v7a.apk)
* [⬇️ x86_64  devices (64 bit; Android 5+)](https://firefox-ci-tc.services.mozilla.com/api/index/v1/task/mobile.v2.reference-browser.nightly.latest.x86_64/artifacts/public/target.x86_64.apk)
* [⬇️ x86  devices (32 bit; Android 5+)](https://firefox-ci-tc.services.mozilla.com/api/index/v1/task/mobile.v2.reference-browser.nightly.latest.x86/artifacts/public/target.x86.apk)

> Please note that these builds do not auto-update, you will have to keep up to date manually.

The latest Nightly build task can be found [here](https://firefox-ci-tc.services.mozilla.com/tasks/index/project.mobile.reference-browser.v3.nightly/latest).

# Getting Involved

We encourage you to participate in this open source project. We love pull requests, bug reports, ideas, (security) code reviews or any kind of positive contribution.

Before you attempt to make a contribution please read the [Community Participation Guidelines](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/governance/policies/participation/).

* [View current Issues](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/issues) or [View current Pull Requests](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/pulls).

* [List of good first issues](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) (**New contributors start here!**) and [List of "help wanted" issues](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/reference-browser/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22).

* IRC: [#android-components (irc.mozilla.org)](https://wiki.mozilla.org/IRC) | [view logs](https://mozilla.logbot.info/android-components/)

* Subscribe to our mailing list [android-components@](https://lists.mozilla.org/listinfo/android-components) to keep up to date ([Archives](https://lists.mozilla.org/pipermail/android-components/)).

# Local Development

You might be interested in building this project against local versions of some of the dependencies. Depending on which dependencies you're building against, there are couple of paths.

## Auto-publication workflow

This is the most streamlined workflow which fully automates dependency publication. It currently supports [android-components](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/android-components/) and [application-services](https://github.com/mozilla/application-services) dependencies.

In a `local.properties` file in root of the `reference-browser` checkout, specify relative paths to a repository you need (or both):
```
# Local workflow
autoPublish.android-components.dir=../android-components
autoPublish.application-services.dir=../application-services
```

That's it! Next build of `reference-browser` will be against your local versions of these repositories. Simply make changes in `android-components` or `application-services`, press Play in `reference-browser` and those changes will be picked-up.

See a [demo of this workflow](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qZKlBzVvQGc) in action. Video mentions `Fenix`, but it works in exactly the same with with `reference-browser`.

## Dependency substitutions for [GeckoView](https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central)

GeckoView currently can be configured via a dependency substitution.

In a `local.properties` file in root of the `reference-browser` checkout, specify GeckoView's path via `dependencySubstitutions.geckoviewTopsrcdir=/path/to/mozilla-central` (and, optionally, `dependencySubstitutions.geckoviewTopobjdir=/path/to/topobjdir`). See [Bug 1533465](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1533465).

This assumes that you have built, packaged, and published your local GeckoView -- but don't worry, the dependency substitution script has the latest instructions for doing that.

Do not forget to run a Gradle sync in Android Studio after changing `local.properties`. If you specified any substitutions (e.g. GeckoView), they will be reflected in the modules list, and you'll be able to modify them from a single Android Studio window. For auto-publication workflow, use seperate Android Studio windows.

# Ouinet Integration
Prior to building the CENO Reference Browser, you will need to build our fork of gecko-dev, which is cloned as submodule to this repo, create a `local.properties` file in the root of this project, and set the values as follows before building the app, assuming your test device is 64bit architecture:
```groovy
dependencySubstitutions.geckoviewTopsrcdir=../gecko-dev
dependencySubstitutions.geckoviewTopobjdir=../gecko-dev/obj-aarch64-unknown-linux-android
ABI=arm64_v8a
CACHE_PUB_KEY="YOUR OUINET CACHE PUB KEY"
INJECTOR_CREDENTIALS="ouinet:YOURINJECTORPASSWORD"
INJECTOR_TLS_CERT="-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\\n\
ABCDEFG...\
\\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----"
```

Those values should be loaded by Gradle during the build process in **app/build.gradle**:


# License

    This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
    License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
    file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/
